Data Structures n CPP

Q. What is structure in c?
structure is another user defined data type available in C that allows to combine data items of different kinds.
You can not define a function in a C structure. But you can have a pointer to a function (as a variable) in C.
There isn't much of a difference between C and C++ in terms of defining functions inside either structures of classes.
It's just the way they are implemented that differs. In that, a function inside a C++ struct / class is same as a pointer 
to the function with first parameter being 'this'.

Q. What is difference between structure and union?
Difference between Structure and Union in C. A structure is a user-defined data type available in C that allows to combining 
data items of different kinds. Structures are used to represent a record.A union is a special data type available in C that 
allows storing different data types in the same memory location.

Q. What is array?
An array is a data structure that contains a group of elements. Typically these elements are all of the same data type, such 
as an integer or string. Arrays are commonly used in computer programs to organize data
so that a related set of values can be easily sorted or searched.

Q. What is string?
String is an array of characters. Character can store only one character , String is used to store sequence of characters.Such 
as names,address etc. For printing string format spacifier is %s. String is  automatically terminated by null character ‘’.

Q. What is pointer?
Pointers in C Programming with examples. ... Unlike other variables that hold values of a certain type, pointer holds the 
address of a variable. For example, an integer variable holds (or you can say stores) an integer value, however an integer
pointer holds the address of a integer variable.

Q. What is double pointer?
We already know that a pointer points to a location in memory and thus used to store address of variables. So, when we define 
a pointer to pointer. The first pointer is used to store the address of second pointer. That is why they are also known 
as double pointers.

Q. What is difference between c and c++?
Difference between C and C++

C was developed by Dennis Ritchie between 1969 and 1973 at AT&T Bell Labs.

C++ was developed by Bjarne Stroustrup in 1979 with C++'s predecessor "C with Classes".

When compared to C++, C is a subset of C++.

C++ is a superset of C. C++ can run most of C code while C cannot run C++ code.

C supports procedural programming paradigm for code development.

C++ supports both procedural and object oriented programming paradigms; therefore C++ is also called a hybrid language.

C does not support object oriented programming; therefore it has no support for polymorphism, encapsulation, and inheritance.

Being an object oriented programming language C++ supports polymorphism, encapsulation, and inheritance.

In C (because it is a procedural programming language), data and functions are separate and free entities.

In C++ (when it is used as object oriented programming language), data and functions are encapsulated together in form of an 
object. For creating objects class provides a blueprint of structure of the object.

In C, data are free entities and can be manipulated by outside code. This is because C does not support information hiding.

In C++, Encapsulation hides the data to ensure that data structures and operators are used as intended.

C, being a procedural programming, it is a function driven language.

While, C++, being an object oriented programming, it is an object driven language.

C does not support function and operator overloading.

C++ supports both function and operator overloading.

C does not allow functions to be defined inside structures.

In C++, functions can be used inside a structure.

C does not have namespace feature.

C++ uses NAMESPACE which avoid name collisions.

A namespace is a declarative region that provides a scope to the identifiers (the names of types, functions, variables, etc)
inside it. Namespaces are used to organize code into logical groups and to prevent name collisions that can occur especially 
when your code base includes multiple libraries. All identifiers at namespace scope are visible to one another without 
qualification. Identifiers outside the namespace can access the members by using the fully qualified name for each identifier.

C uses functions for input/output. For example scanf and printf.

C++ uses objects for input output. For example cin and cout.

C does not support reference variables.

C++ supports reference variables.

C has no support for virtual and friend functions.

C++ supports virtual and friend functions.

C provides malloc() and calloc() functions for dynamic memory allocation, and free() for memory de-allocation.

C++ provides new operator for memory allocation and delete operator for memory de-allocation.

C does not provide direct support for error handling (also called exception handling)

C++ provides support for exception handling. Exceptions are used for "hard" errors that make the code incorrect.

Q. Why array starts from 0 location?
This means that the index is used as an offset. The first element of the array is exactly contained in the memory location 
that array refers (0 elements away), so it should be denoted as array[0]. Most programming languages have been designed
this way, so indexing from 0 is pretty much inherent to the language.

Q. What is class in c++?
The building block of C++ that leads to Object Oriented programming is a Class. It is a user defined data type, which holds 
its own data members and member functions, which can be accessed and used by creating an instance of that class. A class 
is like a blueprint for an object.
1) A Class is a user defined data-type which has data members and member functions.
2) Data members are the data variables and member functions are the functions used to manipulate these variables and together 
   these data members and member functions defines the properties and behavior of the objects in a Class.
3) In the above example of class Car, the data member will be speed limit, mileage etc and member functions can be apply brakes, 
   increase speed etc.

Q. What is difference between class and structure?
The main difference that exists between them is regarding the access modifier; the members of a class are private by default, 
whereas members of a struct are public by default. A class in C++ is just an extension of a structure used in the C language.
It is a user defined data type.

Q. What is oops concepts explain all with example?
Inheritance
Encapsulation
Abstraction
Polymorphism

Q.What is difference between abstraction and polymorphism?
Polymorphism needs the great support of Abstraction to power itself, without Abstraction you cannot leverage the power 
of Polymorphism. Let's understand this by what Abstraction and Polymorphism provide to an object oriented program. 
Abstraction is a concept to simplify the structure of your code. Abstraction allows you to view things in more general 
terms rather than looking them as they are at the moment, which gives your code flexibility to deal with the changes coming 
in future.

Q. What is use of objects?
C++ Classes and Objects. Class: The building block of C++ that leads to Object Oriented programming is a Class. It is a user 
defined data type, which holds its own data members and member functions, which can be accessed and used by creating an
instance of that class. ... For Example: Consider the Class of Cars.

Q. What is inheritance with example
Q. Explain access specifiers in c++
Access modifiers (or access specifiers) are keywords in object-oriented languages that set the accessibility of classes, 
methods, and other members. Access modifiers are a specific part of programming language syntax used to facilitate the
encapsulation of components. ... A class cannot be declared as private.

Q. What is difference between protected and public Access control specifier
These are the access specifier, i.e. it specifies the accessibility. One can access a private member within the same class in
which it is described only. One can access a protected member within all classes in the same package and within the
subclasses in other package. Public members can be accessed by any class.

Q. What are functions
A function is a group of statements that together perform a task. Every C program has at least one function, which is main(), 
and all the most trivial programs can define additional functions. ... A function declaration tells the compiler about a 
function's name, return type, and parameters.

Q. Can we define functions inside functions
Nested function is not supported by C because we cannot define a function within another function in C. We can declare a
function inside a function, but it's not a nested function.

Q. How to define functions outside class


Q. How to create objects of a class?


Q. What is data members and member function


Q. How to call methods of a class.


Q.Can main method override in c and c++


Q. What are reference variable in c and c++


Q. What is difference between call by value and call by reference?


Q. What is constructor


Q. Rules of a constructor


What is constructor chaining in c++


Q. What is polymorphism and type's of polymorphism


Q.What is dynamic binding


Q. What is destructor


Q. What is runtime polymorphism how to achieve it


Q.What are virtual function


Q. What is templates


Q. What is operator overloading With example


Q. What is function overloading


What is function overriding


Core JAVA Question

Q. Why cant we use abstract and final together?<in java>
No, we can not declare abstract method as final. We have to proved implementation to abstract methods in subclasses. 
and method declared as final mean don't override (or redefine) this method. ...
This is because, abstract method has to be overridden to provide implementation.

Q. What is difference between Java and c++
1. Java is platform-independent.C++ is platform dependent.
 2. Java doesn't support the goto statement.C++ supports the goto statement. 
 3. Java is not so interactive with hardware.C++ is nearer to hardware. 
 4. Java doesn't support operator overloading.C++ support operator overloading.
 <Form JVM perspective supporting operator overloading is more difficult and if the same thing can be achieved by 
 using method overloadingin more intuitive and clean way it does make sense to not support operator overloading in java.>
 5. Java uses compiler and interpreter both. Java source code is converted into bytecode at compilation time. 
 The interpreter executes this bytecode at runtime and produces output. Java is interpreted that is why it is 
 platform independent. C++ uses compiler only.C++ is compiled and run using the compiler which converts source code into 
 machine code so, C++ is platform dependent.
 
Q. Features of java
Q. Why Java is platform independent

Q. What is top down and bottom up apporch.
The algorithms are designed using two approaches that are the top-down and bottom-up approach.
In the top-down approach, the complex module is divided into submodules. On the other hand, bottom-up approach begins 
with elementary modules and then combine them further. The prior purpose of an algorithm is to operate the data comprised in 
the data structure.In other words, an algorithm is used to perform the operations on the data inside the data structures.

Q. What is public static void main meaning
Let's split it and understand one by one.
1. public- Here public is an access specifier which allows the main method to be accessble everywhere.
2. static- static helps main method to get loaded without getting alled by any instance/object.
3. void- void clarifies that the main method will not return any value.
4. main- It's the name of the method.
5. String[] args- Here we are defining a String array to pass arguments at command line. args is the variable name of the 
String array. It can be changed to anything such as String [] a.

Q. can we override main method?
main method can be overloaded but cannot be overridden in Java. That's all about overloading and overriding main method in Java. 
Now you know that its possible to overload main in Java but its not possible to override it, simply because its a static method.

Q. What is jdk?
JDK is a superset of JRE, and contains everything that is in JRE, plus tools such as the compilers and debuggers
necessary for developing applets and applications. JRE provides the libraries, the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), 
and other components to run applets and applications written in the Java programming language.

Q. What is JVM
Q. What is jit
Sometimes we heard this term and being it a part of JVM it confuses us. JIT is part of JVM that optimise byte code to 
machine specific language compilation by compiling similar byte codes at same time, hence reducing overall time taken for 
compilation of byte code to machine specific language.

Q.What is jre
Difference between jdk and jre and jvm
Let’s look at some of the important difference between JDK, JRE and JVM.
1>JDK is for development purpose whereas JRE is for running the java programs.
2>JDK and JRE both contains JVM so that we can run our java program.
3>JVM is the heart of java programming language and provides platform independence.

Q. Can Java program run without class?
Yes, you need at least one class to have a program, but no, you do not need any methods (contrary to some other answers). 
EDIT : From Java 7 the above code with just static block and no main method does not produce any output. 
Main method is now compulsory. The code with no main method compiles successfully though.

Q. What is .class file?
A .java file contains your Java source code while a .class file contains the Java bytecode produced by the Java compiler. 
It is your .class files that run on the JVM to execute a Java application.
It is the .class files you will use when you deploy your applet. person can be defined as a class Person.

Q. Can we change the sequence of public static void main?
If you write static public void main instead of public static void main, then it will make no difference. Program compiles 
properly and runs.But if you change the sequence of main,
 then it will you give a compiler error.
 
Q. What is method overriding and methods overloading in Java

Q. What is the difference between final,finally and finalize?
1) final with Variables : The value of variable cannot be changed once initialized.
2) final with Class : The class cannot be subclassed. Whenever we declare any class as final, it means that we can’t extend that 
class or that class can’t be extended or we can’t make subclass of that class.
3) final with Method : The method cannot be overridden by a subclass. Whenever we declare any method as final, then it means that 
 we can’t override that method.
4) If a class is declared as final then by default all of the methods present in that class are automatically final but variables 
are not.
5) The finally keyword is used in association with a try/catch block and guarantees that a section of code will be executed, 
even if an exception is thrown. The finally block will be executed after the try and catch blocks,
but before control transfers back to its origin.
6) It is a method that the Garbage Collector always calls just before the deletion/destroying the object which is eligible 
for Garbage Collection, so as to perform clean-up activity. Clean-up activity means closing the resources associated with that 
object like Database Connection, Network Connection or we can say resource de-allocation. Remember it is not a reserved keyword.
Q. What is type casting in Java
Q. Explain constructor chaining in Java
Q. What is abstract class in Java
Q. Explain inheritance in Java with example
Q.Type of inheritance
How to achieve multiple inheritance in Java
Q.Does Java support multiple inheritance
Q.Difference between interface and abstract class
Q. What is interface
What is default nature of variable and function inside interface
Q.What is final variable, method and class
Q. What is garbage   collection in Java how to achieve it
Q.What is finalized method
Q. What is exception
What is difference between exception and error
Q. Explain exception handling in Java
What is try catch finally explain
Q. Can we write try inside try
Q.Can we write try inside Catch
Q.Can we write try without catch
Q.Can we write try inside finally
Q. What is finally block
Q. What is final, finally and finalize in a single line.
Q.What are rules of method overriding in Java
Q. What is type casting in Java
Q.What are Access specifiers in Java
Q.What is difference between public and protected
Q.What is difference between public and default
Q.What is difference between default and protected
Q.What is marker interface
Q. What is singleton class
Q. What are wrapper classes in Java
Q. What is collection
What are types of collection
Q. Difference between collection and collections
Q.Difference between arraylist and linkedlist
Q. What is arraylist
Q.What is map collection
Q.Syntax of collection
Q.Diagram of collection hierarchy


DATABASES
Q.What is rdbms
Q.Insert query for emp table
Q.Select query for employee table
Q.Write create table query for employee table
Q.What is primary key
Q.What are table constraints like primary key, foreign key, unique key
Q.How many primary key created per table
Q.How many primary key created per table
Q.What's foreign key
Q.Can primary key can be null
Q.Difference between primary and foreign key
Q.Difference between unique and primary key
Q.What are joins
Q.Write query for simple join
Q.Types of joins and explain
Q.What are cursors in plsql
Q.What is pl sql
Q.What are sequences in plsql
Q.What are group functions in mysql
Like sum, avg
Q.Write alter table query
Q.Write update table quert
Query
Q.Difference between truncate and delete
Q What are ddl, dml are n database
Q.What are dml commands
Q.What is transaction innmysql
Q.What is commit and rollback
Q.What is difference between delete truncate and drop table
Q.What are indexes and type's of index's


1. What is a file?
Answer:
A file is a named location which stores data or information permanently. 
A file is always stored inside a storage device using file name (e.g. STUDENT.MARKS). 
A file name normally has primary and secondary name separated by a “.”(DOT).

2.What is a class?
Answer:
A class is a blueprint from which objects are created.
 A class contains methods and variables associated with an instance of a class.

3.What is an object?
Answer:
An object is an instance of a class. For example
class Abc{ —– This is a class
int a; —— This is a variable
public Abc(); —- This is contractor
public static void main (String args[]) ——- This is a method
{
Abc a= new Abc(); —— This is object creation where ‘a’ is the reference variable or object name
}
}

4.What is a constructor?
Answer:
A constructor is methods which are used to create an Object of class.
 There are two types of constructor Default & Parameterized constructor.

5.What is the different OOPS principle?

Answer:
The basic OOPS principle are as follows,

Encapsulation
Abstraction
Inheritance
Polymorphism
6.What is inheritance?
Answer:
Inheritance is property in which the property of a parent class(Superclass) is passed on to child class(Subclass).
 For example
class Abc{ —– This is a class
int a; —— This is a variable
public void abc(){} — Methods
}
class Xyz extends Abc —–(Extend is the keyword, Xyz is the subclass which inherits the properties of ABC parent class.)
{
public static void main (String args[]) ——- This is a method
{
Abc a= new Abc(); —— This is object creation where ‘a’ is the reference variable or object name
}
}

7.What is polymorphism?
Answer:
Polymorphism is the ability of an object to take on multiple forms.
 Most commonly polymorphism is used in OOP when a parent class reference is used to refer to a child class object.

8. What are the instance and class variables?
Answer:
Instance variable belongs to a particular instance of that class whereas Class variable. 
A class variable is also known as static variables. For example
public class Abc{
public int a; …….. This is an instance variable
public static int a1;…….. This is a static or class variable
……………………..
……………..
}

9.Compare method and constructor?
Answer:
Constructor: Used to initialize the instance of a class.
Method: Used to perform some function or operation.

Constructor: Doesn’t have a return type.
Method: Has a return type.

10. What is a singleton class?
Answer:
Singleton class limits the number of objects created for a class to one but gives the flexibility of creating more objects 
if the situation changes.

11. What are the steps for creating the object?
Answer:
An object is first declared then instantiated and at last declared. For example
Abc a= new Abc();

12. What is the different type of access modifiers?
Answer:
There are four type of access modifiers as given below:-
• Visible to the overall package. No modifier needed.
• Private – Visible to class only.
• Public – Visible to the world.
• Protected – Visible to package and subclass.

13.Which is the highest operator precedence in Java
Answer:
The operator with the highest preference is Postfix operators i.e () [].

14.What is an array?
Answer:
The array is a container which holds the fixed number of similar data types.

15. What is the difference between equals() and method and == operator?
Answer:
The equals() is a method and it matches the content of the strings whereas == is an operator and matches object or reference 
of the strings.

16. Is string class final?
Answer:
Yes

17. What is a wrapper class?
Answer:
To access the primitive data type as an object we use wrapper class. They are following:-

Primitive Type	Wrapper class
boolean	                    Boolean
char	                    Character
byte	                    Byte
short	                    Short
int	                    Integer
long	                    Long
float	                    Float
double	                    Double

18.Difference between overloading and overriding?
Answer:
Overloading is when two or more methods in the same class have the same method name but different parameters
(i.e different method signatures). Overriding is when two methods having the same method name and parameters 
(i.e., method signature) but one of the methods is in the parent class and the other is in the child class.

19. What are multiple inheritances in Java?
Answer:
Java supports multiple inheritances i.e the ability of a class to implement more than one interface.
 A class can implement multiple Interfaces but cannot extends multiple classes.

20. What is a stream?
Answer:
A stream can be defined as the sequence of data. There is two type of streams.
InputStream: Used to read data from a source.
OutPut Stream: Used to write data into a destination.

21. What is a Character stream?
Answer:
Java Character stream is basically used to perform input and output for 16 bit Unicode.
 The main classes users are FileReader and FileWriter which internally uses FileInputStream and FileOutputStream so the basic 
 difference is that FileReader and FileWriter read and writes two bites at a time respectively.

22. What is a Byte stream?
Answer:
Java Byte stream is basically used to perform input and output for 8 bit Unicode.
The main classes related to byte streams are FileInputStream and FileOutputStream.

23. What is an Interface?
Answer:
The interface is a reference type in Java, similar to the class but its collection of abstract methods.
 A class can implement multiple interfaces.
 
587 to send   and 465 to recieve and 25 for smtp
25 <for transfer and recieve>
465 and 587<only for outgoing mails>


24.Difference between class and interface?
Answer:
Below are the difference between Interface and class:-

The interface cannot be instantiated.
An interface doesn’t have any constructors.
Interface only have abstract methods.
A class implements an interface and extends a class.
An interface can extend multiple interfaces.

25. What is an abstract class?
Answer:
A class which contains the abstract keyword in a declaration is called abstract class. The properties of the abstract class
 are as follows:-

Abstract classes may or may not contain abstract methods but, if a class has at least one abstract method, then it must be
 declared abstract.
The abstract class cannot be instantiated.
To use an abstract class, we have to inherit it from another class.
If we inherit an abstract class, then we have to provide implementations to all the abstract methods in it.
An abstract class can have explicit constructors.